5 financial ratio every stock investor should know
===

- [**P/E Ratio**](#pe-ratio)
  - [P/E ratio = Current share price/Earning per share = 100/10 = **10**](#pe-ratio--current-share-priceearning-per-share--10010--10)
- [**ROE ratio**](#roe-ratio)
  - [ROE ratio = Net income/Total shareholders’ equity = 20/100= **20%**](#roe-ratio--net-incometotal-shareholders-equity--20100-20)
- [**P/B ratio**](#pb-ratio)
  - [P/B ratio = Market price of a share/Book value per share = 80/8 = **10**](#pb-ratio--market-price-of-a-sharebook-value-per-share--808--10)
- [**Dividend yield**](#dividend-yield)
  - [Dividend yield = Share price/Annual dividend = 20/4 = **5%**](#dividend-yield--share-priceannual-dividend--204--5)
- [**D/E ratio**](#de-ratio)
  - [D/E ratio = Total liabilities/Total shareholders’ equity = 1000/800 = **1.25**](#de-ratio--total-liabilitiestotal-shareholders-equity--1000800--125)


# **P/E Ratio**
P/E ratio is the price an investor pays for Re.1 of
the company’s earnings. It is the ratio of the current
share price to the company’s earnings per share. Every
industry/sector has benchmarks for average P/E ratios.
Since stock prices are governed by market sentiment,
P/E ratios can tell investors if the stock is overpriced
or underpriced with respect to its earnings.

**Example:**
```
Overall earning of a company = Rs.1000
Shares trading in the market = 100
Earning per share = Rs.10
Current share price = Rs.100/share
```

P/E ratio = Current share price/Earning per share = 100/10 = **10**
---

---

# **ROE ratio**
Return on Equity (ROE) ratio is the measure of a
company’s ability to turn equity investments into profit.
It is a ratio of the net income to the total shareholders’
equity in the company. Every industry/sector has benchmarks
for average ROE ratios.Investors can understand how
efficiently the company is turning shareholders’ equity
into profits by comparing it with the industry average.

**Example:**
```
Total shareholders’ equity = Rs.100
Income generated by the company = Rs.20
```
ROE ratio = Net income/Total shareholders’ equity = 20/100= **20%**
---

---

# **P/B ratio**
The Price-to-Book (P/B) ratio tells an investor if he is paying
too much for what will be left if the company went bankrupt.
It is a ratio of the company’s current share price to book value
per share. Sometimes, stock prices can skyrocket without any
corresponding asset base of the company. This ratio helps
identify such companies by comparing it with the industry
average before making a decision.

**Example:**
```
Value of a company = Rs.1000
If the company shuts down,
Loan repayment = Rs.400
Selling of assets = Rs.200
Total book value = 1000 - 400 + 200
Total outstanding shares = 100
Book value per share = Total Book Value/Total
outstanding shares = Rs.800/100 = Rs.8
Market price of a share = Rs.80
```

P/B ratio = Market price of a share/Book value per share = 80/8 = **10**
---

---

# **Dividend yield**

Dividend yield is a measure of the dividend earnings an investor
can make by buying a company’s stock. It is a ratio of the total
dividend distributed by a company to its current stock price.
While higher dividend yields imply a better chance to earn
more dividends, investors must compare the yield with the
industry average to assess if it is worth investing in.

**Example:**
```
Annual company profit = Rs.1000
From this,
Business expansion cost = Rs.600
Distribution to shareholders = Rs.400
Number of shares in the market = 100
Dividend received by each shareholder = 400/100 = Rs.4
Current share price = Rs.20
```
Dividend yield = Share price/Annual dividend = 20/4 = **5%**
---

 ---

# **D/E ratio**

The Debt-to-Equity (D/E) ratio tells investors the degree
to which the company is funding its operations through debt
as opposed to owned funds. It is a ratio of the company’s total
liabilities to its total shareholders’ equity. A high D/E ratio is usually
associated with a company that aggressively seeks to fund its
growth with debt. Investors can determine if the D/E ratio is high
or not by comparing it with the industry average.

**Example:**
```
Total liabilities of the company = Rs.1000
Total shareholders’ equity = Rs.800
```

D/E ratio = Total liabilities/Total shareholders’ equity = 1000/800 = **1.25**
---

---
